Public Cloud expenditures are on the rise,
and despite the rapid adoption of Cloud technology,
public Cloud customers are still failing to harness the full power of Cloud computing.
Accurate cost comparisons between AWS and
traditional on-premises data centers are hard to pin down
accurately as there are very few head-to-head features to evaluate.
AWS doesn't have many services that can be
directly compared to a counterpart in the data center.
For example, the closest comparison we can make to an
on-premises server is an on-demand EC2 instance.
But even in that case,
we would have to compare identically configured servers running at
full capacity together any insight into how they compare.
In the Cloud, there's a concept called
capacity that represents a server's resource potential.
Physical servers are spec'd out and quoted at a purchase or lease price,
and once they're in, they're yours,
with no returns and no refunds.
You make your payments and you do your best to utilize
your servers according to your plans and projections.
Whereas in the Cloud,
service can be provisioned almost as soon as you decide you need one.
It only takes minutes to configure and launch an instance,
and even less time to launch a previously saved machine image.
So there's really no comparing it too.
Another aspect of AWS is the democratization of resource procurement or
the potential of anyone in your Cloud technology group to
purchase AWS resources at anytime.
The old way of purchasing IT resources involved committees,
budget allocations, projections of VP of finance,
and endless levels of approvals.
In the Cloud, there's an account configured with an open credit card or
purchase order that can be assigned to
a technical group or a traditional finance or accounting team,
and with the proper roles and permissions,
anyone on the Cloud technology team can procure Cloud resources.
While this has led to improved efficiency in the development process and greatly
accelerated the pace of innovation due to on-demand availability of resources,
it's also translated into
a complex billing structure for
non-technical finance staff to interpret at the end of the month.
This shift has opened a lane for many third-party software in
Cloud consulting firms to offer billing interpretation and optimization services.
You will definitely become familiar with some
of these vendors as you progress in your career.
Understanding Cloud billing is
a valuable skill that we'll have begun to master by the end of this lesson.